- [Instructor] Let's walk through a few examples
involving iterables to see how to traverse a collection.
To get us started,
I've created a collection of rooms
that's backed by an array list implementation.
If we want to create an instance
of an iterator from this collection,
we can declare a variable of type Iterator
and give it a generic type of Room.
I'll then give it a name
and from there we can invoke
the iterator method on our collection.
This is a factory method that returns
a new instance of an iterator.
I'm going to use this iterator
to print some output to the console.
To do that, I'll just invoke
the next method on the iterator.
Now because the iterator is backed by the collection,
we can access collection elements through the next method.
Each time we call the next method,
it's going to advance one position forward in the collection
and return an element.
That element is going to be of type Room
because our iterator is generically typed.
So as I look through the methods that we can invoke
on the element returned by the next method,
you'll see that we have all the methods from the room type.
I'll go ahead and print the name to the console.
Now I'm going to do this two more times
and each time that we invoke the next method,
the iterator's going to advance and return a room.
Now watch what happens when we execute this code.
The iterator advances through the collection,
returns the room and prints the name.
So there we can see all of the names
of our rooms in the collection.
Now one thing that's important to know
about this factory method
is that it returns a new instance of an iterator.
So if I do something like this
and I create a second iterator instance,
and then in this last line of code
I switch over to use the second iterator instance,
watch what happens when I execute the code.
The first iterator instance prints Piccadilly and Cambridge
and then you'll notice
our second iterator instance prints Piccadilly.
That's because the second iterator instance
only tracks its own progress
traversing through the collection's elements.
It's separate from the first iterator.
So through this example,
you can see how we get different iterator instances
from that factory method.
Now this isn't how we typically use an iterator.
Normally when using an iterator
it's in combination with a while loop.
So let me go ahead and create a while loop
that uses our iterator
to traverse through the collection of rooms.
Okay, so there we see it
and let's start to dissect this pattern.
One of the most important parts is this call
to hasnext within the condition of the while loop.
Hasnext is a method on the iterator
that's going to return a Boolean that indicates
if the iterator has more elements to traverse through.
If this method returns false,
we'll fall out of the wild loop.
But while it's true,
we'll continue iterating through our iterator.
And inside of the body of our loop,
we can invoke the next method
to get each element from the collection.
Now my IDE has placed a cast in here that's unnecessary,
so I'm going to remove it
and then I'll just print out
each room's name to the console.
All right, let's go ahead
and we can execute this code,
and there you can see how we can use a while loop
and an iterator to traverse through a collection.
This was a popular approach
for iterating a collection prior to Java 5.0
when the enhanced for loop was introduced.
This loop, also known as the for-each loop,
provides a concise way to iterate through a collection.
Let's check it out.
I'm just going to type foreach in my IDE,
then hit control + space, then enter,
and this will cause Eclipse
to build out for-each loop for me.
This for-each loop iterates through all of the elements
in our rooms collection.
Now let's break down its syntax.
On the right side of the statement,
you'll see that we have our collection of rooms
and you'll recall that the collection interface
extends the iterable interface.
Any object that we place on the right side of this statement
is going to be iterated through
and we need that iterable interface
to be implemented by that object
because it's used to obtain an iterator.
And each time that we iterate through our for loop,
the next method on that iterator is called
to get the next element in our collection.
That element is going to be assigned to the variable
declared on the left side of this statement.
Now because our collection is generically typed,
the internal code for the for-each loop
can take advantage of that typing
and it knows what type to assign
each element retrieved from the iterator.
Within the body of the loop,
we can use this variable.
So I'm just going to go ahead
and use it to get the name of the room,
and we can print it out to the console.
Just remember with each iteration of this loop,
an iterator is called
to get the next element in our collection
and that value is assigned to this variable.
And we can see that in action if we execute our code
because you'll notice that using the for-each loop,
we were able to print out the name
of each room in our collection.
So those are some of the most common patterns
involving iterables that we use to traverse a collection.
In these patterns, loops play an important role.
But as you'll soon see,
we can achieve similar results in most cases
using a functional programming style.